---
title: Oh Steve
date: 2007-06-13T21:00:00
tags: 
  - iphone
---

You cad, you.

> But but but you guys you don't understand! A poorly written
> application could crash AT&T's network!

I'd sort of expected that Apple would end up giving developers access to
a Widget-like API for the iPhone. It's disappointing that it turned out
to be true but I guess it's sort of good news for dorky web developers
like me. It's still a complete cop-out, though. Regardless of how neat
AJAX Web 2.0 (jesus I really hate referring to things as Web 2.0)
applications can be made to be to look and perform, it's still
absolutely no substitute to having access to OS X's core cocoa APIs such
as Core Image, Core Video, Core Audio and Core Animation (well, assuming
the iPhone is running Leopard). Which reminds me, I really should get to
leafing through that Objective-C book I bought a while ago.

All of this raises one question though; why, Apple? Why alienate your
third party developers in this way?

The only theory I have so far as that part of the deal Apple cut with
AT&T was that Apple could be the only developer of applications for the
iPhone. We'll change our network for you if we have a single point of
contact should one of your phone's applications decide to misbehave.
This makes little sense, however, because lots of devices such as
Blackberry's are capable of running native applications without any such
hinderance. As far as I'm aware, there haven't been any reported cases
of any such devices causing any problems with cell networks. I don't buy
that Apple made this decision all by themselves, however. They wouldn't
alienate their developer community in such a way, surely.

Which brings us back to AT&T imposing their will on Apple in some way.
Of course Steve would never publicly admit to any such thing, which is
probably why he was forced to announce some limited form of application
development so as to be seen to be in control of the situation. The
whole debacle has seen armchair industry pundits from across the world
take a break from picking doritos from their neckbeards to immediately
blog up the blogosphere with all sorts of nonsense regarding the
impending demise of Apple — something which I find pretty funny.

The biggest thing announced at this year's WWDC, to my mind, is the new
Finder.app. It looks great, and it seems to go a long way towards
allaying some of my biggest pet peeves with it. I just pray they've
finally stopped it excreting all over itself whenever a network share
gets dropped. Time Machine also looks a lot cooler and far more useful
than I thought it would be, but there still seems to be no word as to
whether it uses ZFS or not but I assume Apple wouldn't be stupid
enough to completely forgo ZFS's snapshot mechanism. But then again I
assumed Apple wouldn't be stupid enough to give third party iPhone
application developers the finger.
